[music]
Open AAI is an AI startup that has
raised money from venture capitalists.
Open AAI is also a venture capitalist in
its own right. Open AAI operates the
OpenAI startup fund which has $175
million to invest in startups. In
February of 2024, they participated in a
$675 million funding round into a
humanoid robot startup called Figure AI.
About one year later, in June of 2025,
Sam Alman gave an interview to
Bloomberg. It seems that he's really
excited about humanoid robots because he
brought up the topic completely
unprompted. Let's have a listen.
>> Meanwhile, AI is destroying jobs
elsewhere. And I feel like even, you
know, there is serious anxiety out
there. People are scared.
>> Totally.
>> Even among the best engineers and
technologists, people are scared. Um,
what do you say to those people?
AI is for sure going to change a lot of
jobs, totally take some jobs away,
create a bunch of new ones.
>> And the thing that is different this
time is just the rate with which it
looks like it will happen.
>> Mhm.
>> Um the thing I think the world is not
ready for, like people have maybe
abstractly thought like, okay, it's
going to be a better programmer than me.
It's going to be, you know, better at
customer support and whatever. Um I
don't think the world has really had the
humanoid robots
>> moment yet.
And I don't think that's very far away
from like a visceral like, oh man, this
is going to do a lot of things that
people used to do. So, so yeah, it's
coming and we we have always tried to
just be super honest about what we think
the impact may be, realizing it will be
wrong on a lot of details.
>> What happens when the humanoid robots
get here? Um,
I mean they'll obviously do a lot of
jobs, but what I the point I was trying
to make is I think like the first day
you're like walking down the street and
there's like seven robots that walk past
you doing things or whatever, it's going
to feel very sci-fi.
>> Mhm.
>> Sam Alman believes that within the near
future, there will be seven humanoid
robots walking down every street and
they'll take everyone's jobs. Open AAI
isn't developing any humanoid robots on
its own. Sam Alman probably thinks
Figure AAI is going to develop these
humanoid robots. As a shareholder,
OpenAI will benefit from the upside.
Figure AI has released some impressive
looking demo videos which have garnered
a lot of media attention. But upon
further inspection, there are some
massive red flags with the company. In
this video, we'll take a deep dive into
the humanoid robot industry in general
and figure AI in particular and try to
separate hype from reality.
As we will see in this video, we're
probably never going to have humanoid
robots doing our household chores within
our lifetimes. But one thing most of us
need to do every month is pay our rent.
Recently, I've started using Built
Rewards to pay my rent, which is also
the sponsor of today's video. When I
first heard about Built, my first
reaction was, I wish I had started
sooner. There's no cost to join, and you
can start earning rewards on rent no
matter where you live. You don't even
have to check with your landlord first.
When you pay your rent through Built,
you earn Built points, the industry's
most valuable and flexible points. In
addition to your rent, if you link your
credit card to Built, you can also earn
points when you spend money at Built
Partners. You can redeem these points to
pay for airline tickets, hotels,
restaurants, fitness classes, and lift
rides. Or you can just redeem them
towards your next month's rent. If you
rent where you live, joining Build is
really a no-brainer. But don't just take
my word for it. Try it out for yourself
and start earning points today. Sign up
through the link in the description
below or scan the QR code on screen and
make sure to use my URL so they know I
sent you. And now back to the video.
Figure AI is a relatively new company.
It was founded in 2022 by a man named
Brett Adcock. Adcock has a very
interesting resume. In 2013, Adcock
co-founded an online hiring platform
called Better. His other co-founder was
a man named Adam Goldstein. In 2018,
they sold Better to the human resources
giant Adico. Having received their big
payday from their HR startup, Adcock and
Goldstein decided to co-found a much
sexier startup. Later that same year,
the two men founded a company called
Archer Aviation. Archer aimed to develop
a vertical takeoff and landing or EV
tall aircraft. Archer went public by
merging with a spack in 2021. At the
time Archer went public, Goldstein and
Adcock both served as co-CEOs of the
company. We've made multiple videos
about Archer in the past. We have an
extremely negative view of the company.
Archer's original design was not fit for
purpose, so they had to redesign it.
They have staged multiple fake
deliveries, even though they have not
yet sold a single aircraft to a
customer. In June of 2025, they
published a video of their first piloted
test flight, but they used their old
design, which cannot do a transition
flight and will never enter commercial
service. If you want a fuller
explanation of the Archer Aviation
story, you can watch our two previous
videos about the company, link in the
description below. But here's the bottom
line. Archer developed an aircraft
design that was not fit for purpose.
They had to completely change the
design. They were not transparent about
this. In our opinion, they've been
extremely misleading with their public
statements and demonstrations. They try
to fool their gullible shareholders into
thinking their aircraft is closer to
commercial service than it actually is.
And even if it did work as intended, it
would probably not be economically
viable. The fact that Archer is facing
technical difficulties shouldn't come as
a huge surprise. It was founded by two
men whose original claim to fame was
creating an online recruiting service. I
don't know why anyone thought they had
the expertise to develop an electric
aircraft. In April of 2022, Brett Adcock
stepped down as co-CEO of Archer
Aviation. The company decided that the
co-CEO structure was inefficient. Adam
Goldstein became the sole CEO. Having
stepped down from Archer, Adcock decided
to found yet another startup, and this
next one would be perhaps his most
ambitious venture yet. In 2022, Brett
Adcock founded Figure AI using $10
million of his own money as seed
capital. He hired former employees from
Boston Dynamics in Tesla. Figure's goal
is to produce autonomous humanoid robots
that can perform a wide range of tasks
currently done by human workers. Adcock
doesn't have any formal education or
experience in AI or robotics. In the
early days of Figure, Adcock took online
AI courses and read books about
robotics. This is according to former
employees. Despite his lack of
experience, Adcock seemed confident he
could accomplish what many large
companies have failed to do for decades.
In March of 2023, they published a CGI
video of a humanoid robot. It has a
sleek futuristic design similar to that
of Tesla's Optimus robot. Figures stated
goal is to begin generating revenue as
quickly as possible. Their first
envisaged use cases will be in factories
and warehouses. Shortly after publishing
their first CGI video, Adcock told the
Fast Company, quote, "Existing humanoids
today have just been stunts and demos.
We want to get away from that and show
that they can be really useful."
In October of 2023, Figure published the
first real footage of its robot, which
it called Figure 1. It walked in a
straight line. In May of 2023, Figure
raised $70 million from various venture
capital firms at a reported valuation of
$400 million.
Media and investor hype around Figure
really started to pick up in 2024. In
January of 2024, they announced a
partnership with BMW. BMW agreed to
start experimenting with Figur's robots
at their assembly plant in South
Carolina. If the tests go well, they may
decide to scale up the use of the
robots. BMW would use Figure second
generation robot called the Figure 2,
which is supposedly more advanced and
capable than Figure 1. The BMW
partnership was a gamecher in terms of
investor perception. Despite the company
being less than two years old, it looked
like they were making rapid progress
towards a real commercial use case. In
February of 2024, just a month after
announcing the BMW partnership, Figure
raised a massive $675 million funding
round. Participating investors included
Jeff Bezos, Nvidia, and the OpenAI
startup fund. The round valued figure at
$2.6 billion.
In February of 2024, Adcock reportedly
wrote the following in a LinkedIn post.
quote, "We signed our first commercial
customer, BMW, a year ago. We currently
have a fleet of robots performing
end-to-end operations," unquote. I
couldn't find this post, so I believe he
subsequently deleted it, but this
statement was reported by multiple media
outlets at the time. On March 31st,
2025, Figure posted this video on its
official Instagram page. The video shows
a figure 2 robot placing some pieces of
sheet metal onto a stamping machine. The
video is captioned, quote, "This isn't a
test. This is what autonomous robots in
production operations look like. The
caption uses the word robots plural, but
it only shows a single figure 2 robot.
It then shows the BMW assembly line,
which includes a large number of
industrial robots not made by Figure.
Automobile manufacturers have used
robotic arms and other industrial robots
for decades. What's new about the figure
is the fact that it's humanoid. One
thing that's interesting to note in the
video is you don't see a single human
worker.
BMW's factory in South Carolina is
already heavily automated. It has
thousands of industrial robots which
already do the vast majority of the
welding, painting, and many other tasks.
Notice that wherever robots are
operating, they're surrounded by cages.
This is done for safety purposes so that
human workers don't stand too close to
the robot and risk being hit by the
robot arm. The main body of the vehicle
is welded and painted by large
industrial robots. Then it goes to the
assembly line where human workers
install a lot of small parts. This
involves crawling into the vehicle and
doing a lot of intricate motions. These
are things that are difficult for a
robot to do. That's why they still use
human workers. The cars are constantly
moving on a very slow assembly line. The
human workers need to complete the tasks
on time. Any delay would require the
entire line to stop. Most modern vehicle
factories have operated in this manner
for decades. Large industrial robots can
pretty easily handle the big stuff. The
smaller intricate parts are installed by
humans on the final assembly line. The
whole purpose of a humanoid robot is
that it's supposed to perform intricate
tasks previously done by humans.
Otherwise, you're probably better off
using stationary robot arms like most
automakers have already been using for
decades. If we go back to the Instagram
video figure published in March of 2025,
it is not on the final assembly line
where the human workers are. It's in its
own separate area performing an
extremely simple and repetitive task
that could easily be done by a
stationary robot arm.
In April 2025, Figure found itself in
controversy. Jason Del Rey, a reporter
at Fortune magazine, reached out to BMW
to ask about the Figure partnership. BMW
told him that they were only running
offhour tests with just a single
humanoid working at any given time and
only on a single task, retrieving metal
sheets and placing them into fixtures to
get ready for welding. This contradicts
Adcock's previous claim that they had a
fleet of robots performing end-to-end
operations at BMW. The whole thing looks
a lot more like a staged PR demo than
something that's actually useful to BMW.
In June of 2025, Adcock attended a
Bloomberg event where he was asked about
the BMW partnership. The stated um known
customer that you have is BMW, a car
company. You have said that you have
robots deployed at at BMW. What kind of
tasks are they doing there and in what
volume are they deployed with that
company? Yeah. So, we um we currently
are doing a basically a job in the body
shop uh where we basically move sheet
metal back and forth. Uh you know, the
goal is to be able to put it on
fixtures, then those get welded into a
car chassis. Um so, we're doing that uh
role uh every day. Um today, I don't
know what the time it is on the East
Coast if we're still doing it, but like
uh and um and then we're going to spend
a lot more time. Well, we already are,
but we're going to spend a lot more
effort just basically expanding to more
use cases throughout the rest of the
year.
>> He explains that the robot is moving
sheet metal back and forth, but
throughout the rest of the year, they
will expand to more use cases. In fact,
they are already expanding to more use
cases. 4 months later, in October of
2025, Adcock posted the following on
Twitter. This week, Figure has passed 5
months running on the BMW X3 body shop
production line. We've been running 10
hours per day every single day of
production. It is believed that Figure
and BMW are the first in the world to do
this with humanoid robots. In the
attached video, the Figure robot is
doing the same simple repetitive task,
taking sheet metal and placing them into
fixtures. No sign of any expansion of
use cases. The video is massively sped
up, so we don't know how fast it's
actually moving. And again, we only see
a single humanoid robot, not a flea.
There is no tool use, fasteners,
multi-step manipulation, or any task
that would resemble real automotive
assembly. The movements are extremely
controlled and discreet. Nothing in the
footage indicates a sort of adaptive
real-time autonomy that would be
required to operate on the actual
assembly line. Remember when we looked
at the video of the industrial welding
robots earlier? There are cages
surrounding each robot for safety
reasons. The figure video lacks any
visible safety gauges, thus indicating
it is not operating near any human
workers. The workspace looks more like a
pilot cell or a stage recording area
rather than part of a functioning
assembly line. The parts being handled
are trivial and non-critical, precisely
the kind typically used for marketing
demonstrations because there's little
room for embarrassment if the robot
makes a mistake. The sheet metal pieces
are in the exact same position and the
robot's hand makes the same pose with no
visible perception, no correction
motions, and no evidence of the robot
responding to variation. This strongly
suggests a fixed script, a tea operator,
or playback of recorded trajectories
rather than true autonomous performance.
This is October of 2025, almost 2 years
after they signed the partnership with
BMW, and this is all they have. In
addition to working in factories, Figure
also envisages its robots being able to
do household chores. In February of
2025, they unveiled something they call
Helix. Helix is a new software upgrade,
which they claim incorporates advanced
AI. With Helix, the robot can perceive,
reason, take language commands, and act
in unstructured environments. In July of
2025, Brett Adcock posted the following
on Twitter. Here's a figure 2 in my home
using Helix to do my laundry. It
includes a video filmed by Adcock.
Adcock can be heard saying, quote, "A
figure 2 humanoid robot doing laundry in
the Adcock house," unquote. The video
includes two young children who are
presumably his kids. Adcock says the
robot is not teaoperated. It's running
Helix, which is a neural network. In
other words, the robot is being powered
by AI and doing things autonomously.
Let's analyze this video from the Adcock
house in detail. The robot is loading
laundry into a gray electrolux washing
machine. The floor has very distinctive
hexagonal tiles. We can also see the
hallway. It's a narrow hallway with a
light colored hardwood floor. This is
supposedly the Adcock house. The house
where Brett Adcock and his family lives.
The implication is that the figure robot
with his helix artificial intelligence
is so advanced that it can be used to do
real things in a real house.
A few months later, in October of 2025,
Figure unveiled its latest robot model
called Figure 3. They published this
demonstration video. According to CNET,
the demo was filmed at the company's
home testing facility in Northern
California. The inside of the home is
incredibly clean. There's no random junk
sitting around like you would expect in
a real house where people live. There's
a toy on the table and a stuffed animal
on the couch, but these were
intentionally placed so the robot can
pick them up. This is clearly a testing
or demonstration facility, not a real
house where people live. We see the
robot walking around the house. Notice
the light colored hardwood floor. Also,
take note of this red abstract painting
in the living room. The robot eventually
walks to the laundry room. We can see a
narrow hallway that goes to the living
room. We can see the same red abstract
painting we saw in the living room in
the earlier clip. So, we know we're
still in the same house. This house is a
testing or demo facility, not a real
house where anybody lives. And when we
look in the laundry room, what do we
see? Hexagonal tiles in a gray
Electrolux washing machine. Does this
sound familiar? This is the exact same
laundry room that Adcock claimed was in
his personal house back in July. Adcock
was lying. This was not in the Adcock
house. This was at Figure's home testing
facility. Adcock took his kids to the
testing facility so he could film a fake
video pretending that it was at his
house. Many media outlets fell for this
deception. For example, Futurism
published this article two days after
Adcock's fake Twitter video. Quote,
"Wild video shows humanoid robot loading
a washing machine pretty well. First
time seeing a humanoid robot actually
doing a task in a home." But this was
not in a home. This was in a controlled
testing facility. So, why did Adcock
take his kids to the testing facility to
film the video? Why not just take the
robot to his house? You only lie if you
have something to hide. The robot
supposedly uses the advanced Helix
artificial intelligence software. The AI
is supposed to be able to observe its
surroundings and adapt to any
environment. This is a requirement to be
commercially useful. The inside of
everybody's house and laundry room is
unique. Figures home testing facility is
a controlled environment. You don't need
any artificial intelligence. You can
hardcode the robot to do the exact
movements it needs to do for the demo
video. This is not impressive. This is
not cuttingedge technology, and it's
certainly not useful. All the way back
in the 2000s, Honda was trying to
develop a humanoid robot called the
Aimo. In 2010, they published what
looked like a very impressive demo
video. The Aimo conducted the Detroit
Symphony Orchestra. As impressive as
this demonstration appeared, the Aimo
was a commercial failure. Honda
eventually ceased development of Aimo,
having never sold a single one. It was
painstakingly hard-coded to conduct just
that one song. It didn't have the
intelligence to learn anything on its
own, so it was pretty much useless. It
would be much cheaper to hire a real
human conductor who can learn to conduct
any song instead of having a team of
engineers hardcode the Aimo for each
song that it conducts. If the figure
robot could actually do laundry in a
real person's house, that would indeed
be impressive. Now, we know this is
fake. This leads me to believe that the
figure robot is no more capable than
Honda's failed to see robot was 15 years
ago.
At the beginning of this video, we
watched a clip of Sam Alman saying that
humanoid robots will soon take
everyone's jobs. Remember that OpenAI is
an investor in figure AI. This whole
narrative that AI is going to take your
job is an artifist to fool the gullible.
Sam Alman, the benevolent tech overlord,
is sounding the alarm, warning society
about this impending economic
disruption. The implication being that
this technology is so powerful and
valuable that you should invest your
money into AI startups like OpenAI and
Figure AI. We can expect Altman's
narratives to become even more grandiose
going into OpenAI's expected IPO next
year. The reality is far less alarming
and far less exciting. Unless your job
is to load laundry into a washing
machine in a controlled environment in
one specific pre-programmed testing
facility, your job is not going to be
taken by a robot.
All right, guys, that wraps it up for
this video. What do you think about
Figure AI? Let us know in the comments
section below. As always, thank you so
much for watching and we'll see you in
the next one. Wall Street Millennial
signing